Recovery:
Detection of deadlock is especially useful if an acceptable level of recovery can be made. The 
definition of acceptable can be stretched according to circumstances to include the following 
techniques listed according to the order of sophistication:
1. Abort all deadlocked processes – this is the method adopted in most general-purpose 
systems.
2. Re-start all deadlocked processes, however, this method may lead straight back to the 
original Deadlock.
3. Successfully (one at a time) abort deadlocked processes until Deadlock no longer exists. 
The order in which this is done should reduce resources already used.
4. Successfully (one at a time) pre-empty resources from deadlocked processes until Deadlock 
no longer exists. The order of pre-empting should be such that to minimize the cost.
This strategy has an advantage in interactive systems since avoidance in the other strategies 
is quite expensive because the deadlocks are unpredictable and depend on the user's actions.

Prevention:
To prevent Deadlock at least one of the four conditions mentioned below must be denied.
1.Mutual exclusion condition:
A deadlock would not happen if all processes could access a resource. For instance, use LPR to 
hold the data to print. It will send this data to the device. 
It's called spooling.
2. Hold and wait for the condition:
A process could have only 1 resource at a time. After the process will stop using the 
resource, it passes it to other processes.
3.No preemption condition:
If we work only with preemptive resources, then we can prevent the process from using a 
resource: firstly give it to other processes and then give the resource back (ex: Disk or 
Network). 
Nevertheless, it cannot happen with all the resources (ex. printer).
4.Circular wait condition:
 Forcing the processes to create a list of mandatory resources beforehand and safely schedule 
the processes.
This method is suitable for periodic systems like batch systems or real-time systems since we 
run a limited set of duties with known details about them.

Avoidance:
Here we are able to break the circular wait condition. If we know the resources that will be 
used by processes, we can schedule them in a safe way or throw an error if the deadlock is 
inevitable (the number of resources is not sufficient for some process at the beginning of 
scheduling of all the tasks)
